typescript/README.md, before:

Type Checking in TypeScript
===========================

- `matklad.ts` - Transcription of
  <https://matklad.github.io/2023/08/17/typescript-is-surprisingly-ok-for-compilers.html>

- `bool-int-andy.ts` - Remove visitor, and report multiple errors with 'errors'
  out param.

## TODO

- Add a better syntax for testing
  - S-expressions with any type of thing
  - `(== (+ 1 2) (+ 3 4))`

- Write an evaluator!

- Add enough to run statically typed Fibonacci!
  - bools and ints / conditions and arithmetic
  - `(define ...)` to avoid confusing lambda binding
  - `(begin ...)` so we define, then apply, more like JavaScript
  - `(print ...)` since it's a side effect

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15057786/scheme-fibonacci-series-with-nested-lambda

You would have to use the Y combinator, but maybe we can do without it:

```lisp
(begin
  # Using syntax from book ?
  (deftype fib (-> [number] number)

  (define fib
    (lambda [n]
      (if (== n 0)
        1
        (+ (fib (- n 1)) (fib (- n 2))))))

  # Is print polymorphic
  (print (fib 10))
```

In JS 

```javascript
var fib = function(n: number): number {
  if (n === 0) {
    return 1
  } else {
    return fib(n - 1) + fib(n - 2)
  }
}

print((fib(10))
```

- Turn it into simply typed lambda calculus
  - "Abstraction" and "Application", aka Function Defs and Calls
  - With var binding!

- Turn it into a type CHECKED language, not type inferred

- Port to Python 3 with pattern matching and MyPy, and see how long it is.

## Comparable Projects

Title: A Statically Typed Language in 500 lines of TypeScript (or Python)

"Simplest code that's not a toy" -- Has a good parser with exhaustive
reasoning, and gives precise error emssages.  Based on Oils.

- Similar to "500 lines or less" book (which doesn't have this)

NONE of these are statically typed.

- Make-a-Lisp: Much bigger codebase to read
- Norvig's Lispy -- both languages dynamically typed, s.split('(') etc.
- ocamlscheme -- Uses ML lex and yacc

But the reader is worth comparing.

- Types and Programming Languages, e.g. Chapter 11 Lambda Calculus
  - Doesn't have examples!
  - No parser!  Hard to write tests!

- Dragon Book: Shockingly, doesn't have code for a type checker!
  - Somehow I didn't realize this for awhile

- TODO: look at Essentials of Programming Languages?
  - Does not have parser?

 
## Fiddly Things I learned from Oils

- Representing Tokens, location info
- Lexer modes for ""
- Writing down the grammar first, then writing the recursive descent parser
  - errors should "fall out" cleanly

General them is "exhaustive reasoning" -- languages have many conditionals, and
it's important to tame them.

Commit message:

[typescript/parse] Print precise parse errors!
With location info.

Move everything to its own test.

typescript/README.md, after:

Type Checking in TypeScript
===========================

- `matklad.ts` - Transcription of
  <https://matklad.github.io/2023/08/17/typescript-is-surprisingly-ok-for-compilers.html>

- `bool-int-andy.ts` - Remove visitor, and report multiple errors with 'errors'
  out param.

## TODO

- DONE Add a better syntax for testing
  - S-expressions with any type of thing
  - `(== (+ 1 2) (+ 3 4))`

- Print nice parse errors

- read() vs. parse()
  - if and binary operators need to be parsed to an AST

- Add lexer modes for "\u{123456} \n \\"

- then port the type checker

- then write an evaluator!

- Add enough to run statically typed Fibonacci!
  - bools and ints / conditions and arithmetic
  - `(define ...)` to avoid confusing lambda binding
  - `(begin ...)` so we define, then apply, more like JavaScript
  - `(print ...)` since it's a side effect

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15057786/scheme-fibonacci-series-with-nested-lambda

You would have to use the Y combinator, but maybe we can do without it:

```lisp
(begin
  # Using syntax from book ?
  (deftype fib (-> [number] number)

  (define fib
    (lambda [n]
      (if (== n 0)
        1
        (+ (fib (- n 1)) (fib (- n 2))))))

  # Is print polymorphic
  (print (fib 10))
```

In JS 

```javascript
var fib = function(n: number): number {
  if (n === 0) {
    return 1
  } else {
    return fib(n - 1) + fib(n - 2)
  }
}

print((fib(10))
```

- Turn it into simply typed lambda calculus
  - "Abstraction" and "Application", aka Function Defs and Calls
  - With var binding!

- Turn it into a type CHECKED language, not type inferred

- Port to Python 3 with pattern matching and MyPy, and see how long it is.

## Comparable Projects

Title: A Statically Typed Language in 500 lines of TypeScript (or Python)

"Simplest code that's not a toy" -- Has a good parser with exhaustive
reasoning, and gives precise error emssages.  Based on Oils.

- Similar to "500 lines or less" book (which doesn't have this)

NONE of these are statically typed.

- Make-a-Lisp: Much bigger codebase to read
- Norvig's Lispy -- both languages dynamically typed, s.split('(') etc.
- ocamlscheme -- Uses ML lex and yacc

But the reader is worth comparing.

- Types and Programming Languages, e.g. Chapter 11 Lambda Calculus
  - Doesn't have examples!
  - No parser!  Hard to write tests!

- Dragon Book: Shockingly, doesn't have code for a type checker!
  - Somehow I didn't realize this for awhile

- TODO: look at Essentials of Programming Languages?
  - Does not have parser?

 
## Fiddly Things I learned from Oils

- Representing Tokens, location info
- Lexer modes for ""
- Writing down the grammar first, then writing the recursive descent parser
  - errors should "fall out" cleanly

General them is "exhaustive reasoning" -- languages have many conditionals, and
it's important to tame them.


## List of Errors

- Lexing -- there are no errors
- Parsing -- matching `() []`, EOF, etc.
- Transforming -- `if` and `+` have right arity
- Type checking -- `+` has right args, etc.
- Runtime -- 1/0

## Notes on TypeScript

- Printing JSON is really underated!
  - I can see the tokens and the trees!
  - color from Deno is nice
  - Oils is going to be like this !!!
