README.md, before:

# Code for the [Oil Shell Blog](http://oilshell.org/blog/)

TODO: [Parsing Bash is Undecidable](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2016/10/20.html)

[andychu/pratt-parsing-demo](https://github.com/andychu/pratt-parsing-demo) (other repo) -- 
[Pratt Parsing Without Prototypal Inheritance, Global Variables, Virtual Dispatch, or Java](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2016/11/03.html)

TODO: [Thirteen Incorrect Ways and Two Awkward Ways to Use Arrays](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2016/11/06.html)

TODO: [Example Code in Shell, Awk, and Make](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2016/11/14.html)

[id-kind-func/](id-kind-func/) - [Four Functions and Enum Labelings](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2016/12/26.html)

[forth-like/](forth-like/) - [Shell Has a Forth-like Quality](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2017/01/13.html)

[point-free/](point-free/) - [Pipelines Support Vectorized, Point-Free, and Imperative Style](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2017/01/15.html)

[bernstein-fix/](bernstein-fix/) - [Bernstein Chaining of ssh and su](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2017/01/31.html)

[bourguet/operator_precedence_parsing](https://github.com/bourguet/operator_precedence_parsing) - 
[Code for the Shunting Yard Algorithm, and More](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2017/04/22.html)

[hard-coded-descriptors/](hard-coded-descriptors/) - [Avoid Directly Manipulating File Descriptors in Shell](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2017/08/12.html)

[git-changelog/](git-changelog/) - [How to Quickly and Correctly\* Generate a Git Log in HTML](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2017/09/19.html)


# Pending

[args-pattern/](args-pattern/) -- TODO: Shell: The Good Parts

[redirects-dup/](redirects-dup/) -- This was for explaining redirects

[metaprogramming/](metaprogramming/) -- Different styles of metaprogramming solving the same problem

[python-getopt/](python-getopt/) -- Quadratic behavior I noticed when implementing `args.py`, never used

[py-slots/](py-slots/) -- Slots are not that much faster, but they use much less memory.

[empty-arrays/](empty-arrays/) -- From bash-help thread

[dynamic-scope/](dynamic-scope/) -- Never blogged about this

[dotd/](dotd/) -- HN thread about Make

[closures/](closures/) -- HN thread about use cases for closures

[return-array/](return-array/)

# 2018

[perl/](perl/) -- Is Perl an Acceptable Shell?

[tools-snapshot/](tools-snapshot/) -- A few people wanted to know whta tools I use to write the blog.

[dmin/](ddmin/) -- Refactoring / rewriting the original ddmin Python code.

Commit message:

Initial import of fgrep-problem-benchmarks.

README.md, after:

# Code for the [Oil Shell Blog](http://oilshell.org/blog/)

TODO: [Parsing Bash is Undecidable](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2016/10/20.html)

[andychu/pratt-parsing-demo](https://github.com/andychu/pratt-parsing-demo) (other repo) -- 
[Pratt Parsing Without Prototypal Inheritance, Global Variables, Virtual Dispatch, or Java](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2016/11/03.html)

TODO: [Thirteen Incorrect Ways and Two Awkward Ways to Use Arrays](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2016/11/06.html)

TODO: [Example Code in Shell, Awk, and Make](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2016/11/14.html)

[id-kind-func/](id-kind-func/) - [Four Functions and Enum Labelings](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2016/12/26.html)

[forth-like/](forth-like/) - [Shell Has a Forth-like Quality](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2017/01/13.html)

[point-free/](point-free/) - [Pipelines Support Vectorized, Point-Free, and Imperative Style](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2017/01/15.html)

[bernstein-fix/](bernstein-fix/) - [Bernstein Chaining of ssh and su](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2017/01/31.html)

[bourguet/operator_precedence_parsing](https://github.com/bourguet/operator_precedence_parsing) - 
[Code for the Shunting Yard Algorithm, and More](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2017/04/22.html)

[hard-coded-descriptors/](hard-coded-descriptors/) - [Avoid Directly Manipulating File Descriptors in Shell](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2017/08/12.html)

[git-changelog/](git-changelog/) - [How to Quickly and Correctly\* Generate a Git Log in HTML](http://www.oilshell.org/blog/2017/09/19.html)


# Pending

[args-pattern/](args-pattern/) -- TODO: Shell: The Good Parts

[redirects-dup/](redirects-dup/) -- This was for explaining redirects

[metaprogramming/](metaprogramming/) -- Different styles of metaprogramming solving the same problem

[python-getopt/](python-getopt/) -- Quadratic behavior I noticed when implementing `args.py`, never used

[py-slots/](py-slots/) -- Slots are not that much faster, but they use much less memory.

[empty-arrays/](empty-arrays/) -- From bash-help thread

[dynamic-scope/](dynamic-scope/) -- Never blogged about this

[dotd/](dotd/) -- HN thread about Make

[closures/](closures/) -- HN thread about use cases for closures

[return-array/](return-array/)

# 2018

[perl/](perl/) -- Is Perl an Acceptable Shell?

[tools-snapshot/](tools-snapshot/) -- A few people wanted to know whta tools I use to write the blog.

[ddmin/](ddmin/) -- Refactoring / rewriting the original ddmin Python code.

[fgrep-problem-benchmarks/](fgrep-problem-benchmarks/) -- Grew out of a discussion on the Aho-Corasick algorithm for matching a set of fixed strings.
